[theme tune intro playing]
[digital sputtering and beeping]
-[upbeat synthesizers come in]
-[whooshing]
♪ Here we are ♪
♪ Going far
To save all that we love ♪
♪ If we give all we've got
We will make it through ♪
♪ Here we are, like a star
Shining bright on your world ♪
♪ Today, make evil go away ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, we'll reset it all ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, be there when you call ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, we will stand real tall ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, stronger after all ♪
[computer blipping]
THE KEY
[tense music]
[Odd] Hey, Einstein!
We've been looking everywhere for you!
I spent the whole night
reading Franz Hopper's diary.
[Jeremy] Listen to this.
June 6, 1994. Day 67.
"Project Carthage" was a military program
used to block enemy communications.
Wait. It's further down.
…so I built the Supercomputer,
created Lyoko and last of all XANA
to destroy Carthage…
June 6, 1994.
Day 639…
[Jeremy] It's still further.
June 6, 1994.
Day 1265.
Someone's watching me.
Someone wants to get rid of me!
[all gasp]
[squeaking rewind]
I wanted to destroy the Supercomputer
and destroy all the evidence
of my activities.
That's when I discovered
one of its fascinating properties,
returning to the past.
It gave me all the time
I could possibly need
to perfect my great project,
the only thing that would allow me
to escape my enemies.
[squeaking rewind]
[Franz Hopper] June 6, 1994.
-[Franz Hopper] Day 2546.
-This is it.
The scanners
and the virtualization programs are ready.
In a few hours,
I will go to Lyoko with Aelita.
[Franz Hopper] Just like me,
Aelita will hold the keys to Lyoko.
Together,
we will be the absolute masters!
[Franz Hopper]
We will live together… forever.
The keys to Lyoko…
That's what XANA
wants to steal from Aelita's memory!
But what could XANA do with them?
Escape from the Supercomputer
and take over the world.
[theme music]
[light music]
[Jeremy] Aelita!
You should have stuck around 'til the end.
I didn't have time to tell you
the best news of all.
-It turns out I've been wrong all along.
-[Ulrich] You have? Why?
I thought that
XANA had given Aelita a virus,
so I have been looking for an anti-virus.
But thanks to Franz Hopper's diary,
I finally understand.
[Jeremy]
XANA didn't give her anything at all.
In fact, he took something from her.
He did? But what?
I don't really know yet.
It's a fragment that belongs to her.
I've located it in Sector Five.
We could go and get it tonight,
after the end-of-the-year dance.
Awesome! It'll be our final mission.
And then it's time
for a well-earned real vacation!
-Out of the question!
-[gasping]
[tense music]
[grunts]
[melancholic music]
Aelita! Wait!
What's the matter?
I refuse to set foot on Lyoko ever again!
Why?
What's gotten into you?
My father stole my life from me!
He was a totally crazy
second-rate magician!
Because of him, I'm nothing! I'm no one!
All of that's behind you now.
We'll recover the fragment that XANA took
from you and shut down the Supercomputer.
-[Jeremy] Then you'll be free.
-What if it goes wrong?
What if XANA gets hold of the keys
to Lyoko in my memory?
[Jim] Right, for all you party animals
with short memory spans,
I'd like to remind you that…
[grunts]
What was I saying? Oh, yeah!
During the end-of-the-year dance,
any overly-suggestive dancing,
wild behavior or trouble-making
will be severely punished!
[Jim] That's all… Enjoy yourselves!
So far, I don't have anyone
to take to the dance.
Fortunately, I've got a way with women!
Hi! Wanna go to the dance with me?
-I told you never to speak to me again!
-Oh, sorry.
Hey… Who are you going with anyway?
Well, I was hoping
to talk to you about it.
-Hi, Yumi!
-[Yumi grunts]
Can I talk to you for a second?
[Yumi grunts]
Okay. I get the idea now.
[Sissi] Yoo-hoo!
What would you say to taking
the prettiest girl in school to the dance?
Oh, you mean Anais Fiquet?
No, she's going with Christopher M'Bala.
I meant me, stupid! Well?
-Okay. I'll go to the dance with you.
-[Odd gasps]
[gasps, stammers]
Really? Well, great! See you tonight.
I'd rather look like a big loser and go
by myself than go with someone like her!
[Ulrich] Let it go, Odd, okay?
Are you sure you won't come
to the dance with me?
-[Yumi] Sure.
-Are you going with another guy?
I hope so…
[theme music]
[tense music]
[mechanical whirring]
[grunts]
[powering down]
[Jeremy grunts] Have you seen Aelita?
No.
There's no answer on her phone
and the Supercomputer's
not responding either.
-Do you think it's a bug?
-Maybe. I'm going to the factory.
[Jeremy] Cover for me with the teachers.
So, Odd. Did you find someone
to take to the dance yet?
-No.
-[Sissi] Yoo-hoo, Ulrich!
Here, for you.
What is it?
A surprise. See you tonight!
Okay. I get it.
What? You are going to the dance
with William, aren't you?
Is that a fact?
Well, you really don't get it, do you?
[grunts]
One more of your stupid proverbs
and you are dead!
Ulrich has lost his head,
and should've stayed in bed!
Wait! Wait! I got another one!
Go with Sissi and your future's gloomy
'cause you're gonna lose Yumi!
This isn't right!
[doors opening]
Aelita!
[gasping]
Aelita! Answer me!
Come on… Wake up!
[groans]
You're insane! Why did you do that?
To save the world! To save you all!
We'll save it together
and then you'll have your whole life
in front of you, a brand new life.
You should get ready!
Your girlfriend's
gonna be waiting for you.
Drop it, Odd.
Okay, I'm outta here.
[Odd] Who knows?
Maybe I'll bump into a lonely heart…
[light music]
[grunts]
[scoffs]
Is Yumi home?
Yumi! Your boyfriend's here!
Beat it, Hiroki!
[laughing]
Well, then.
You're not at the dance with Sissi?
I don't really like dancing,
even less with Sissi.
Why are you here?
I came to tell you something…
[phone rings]
Aren't you going to get that?
Yes?
It's me. Are you at the dance?
[Ulrich] No. I don't want to go.
Glad to hear it.
Aelita and I aren't gonna go, either.
Come to the factory. It's mission time!
-[Jeremy] Let Odd and Yumi know, too, OK?
-Okay.
[grunts]
[indistinct chatter]
[upbeat music]
You… You haven't seen Ulrich, have you?
No, and he promised to take me
to the dance!
[groans]
Hi. Wanna go to the dance with me?
[grunts]
All right! My name's Carla!
-I'm Odd.
-Odd Della Robbia?
The one and only!
Oh… I'm sorry…
I'm already seeing someone.
-[phone ringing]
-[Odd groans]
Oh…
[Ulrich] Odd, are you at the dance?
[stammers]
Yeah… I mean… almost.
[Ulrich] Right. Urgent meeting.
Come to the factory.
[Ulrich] We're taking the plunge!
[Odd] Oh, man! Just when I finally
almost found a girl to go with!
[theme music]
This is the big one, guys.
[Jeremy]
We're gonna recover Aelita's fragment
and get rid of XANA once and for all!
Let's go, then.
-[Odd] I'll lead the way.
-[sighs]
Be careful.
[Jeremy] Transfer, Ulrich! Transfer, Odd!
Virtualization!
[Jeremy] Everybody all right?
Better than all right.
[Jeremy] Transfer Yumi! Transfer Aelita!
I'm programming your vehicles, too.
[Jeremy] There you go. The edge
of the sector is North-Northeast!
-[Jeremy] No monsters?
-[Odd] Nope.
Don't you think that's weird?
Don't worry. XANA wasn't expecting us.
Enter the code.
Okay. All aboard for Sector Five!
[beeping]
[whirring]
[Odd grunts]
What's wrong with you?
You feel like throwing up as usual?
No, I don't.
That's what I can't understand!
[Jeremy] Everybody ready? I'm going
to enter the coordinates of the room
where Aelita's fragment is.
[Aelita]
Get ready! The wall is about to open.
[action music]
You have three minutes to find the key
and stop the countdown!
-I see it!
-Out of reach, as usual!
Look out!
[gasps]
[growling]
[grunting]
Hi there, Creepers! Still ugly as ever?
[groans]
[Jeremy] Only one minute to go!
[grunts]
[growling]
-[Odd] Yeah!
-[Ulrich] Supersprint!
[shouting]
[yowling]
Go for it, Yumi.
[tense music]
[straining]
[grunting]
[Jeremy] Yumi!
Only ten seconds left, hurry!
I'm almost there.
[grunting]
[gasping]
[Yumi shouts]
[sighs]
Nice job!
[dramatic music]
Wanna see how low you can go, guys?
I thought you were going to lead the way!
Go on!
[theme music]
[tense music]
[Ulrich] Jeremy,
there's something shining over there!
[beeping]
That's it!
[Jeremy] That's Aelita's missing fragment!
[panting]
Look out!
[shrieking]
[gasps]
[tense music]
[gasping]
[grunting]
[Ulrich shouting]
[Creepers growling]
Yeah.
[gasps]
[shouting]
We better not hang around here.
[groaning]
Go on!
[grunting]
[Odd shouts]
[Aelita gasps]
[growling]
[all shouting]
[groans]
[Yumi groans]
[Ulrich] Jeremy! Yumi and Odd are down!
I know. Get Aelita's fragment!
-[gasps]
-[alert beeping]
[Jeremy] The whole room is falling apart.
Run for it!
[Ulrich] Oh, no!
[both panting]
[shouting]
[gasping]
[Ulrich] Jeremy, it's getting worse.
Oh, no. It's getting better.
[Yumi gasps]
[Odd gasps]
You're crazy! What's going on?
[Jeremy] It's Franz Hopper
who's controlling the Mantas.
[gasping]
-This is amazing!
-[Yumi gasps]
[digital scanning]
[gasps]
[both grunt]
[tense music]
[Jeremy grunts]
It's a trap!
[gasps]
[Ulrich shouting]
[screaming]
[gasping]
Help me!
[alert beeping]
Aelita! Behind you!
[gasping]
I don't believe it!
[groans]
There wasn't anything I could do.
No!
[both gasping]
[grunts]
[beeping]
[gasps]
[groaning]
[powering down]
Aelita's… dead.
[alert beeping]
[whooshing]
[tense music]
What… What's going on?
[stammers]
XANA got what he wanted.
He has the keys to Lyoko.
[Jeremy] He'll be able to get out
of the Supercomputer!
[Aelita] Did you see, mommy?
[Mrs. Hopper]
Don't go too far, sweetheart.
[Aelita] Oh, he's so cute!
What should I call him?
[Franz Hopper] What about "Mister Pück"?
It means "goblin".
[Mrs. Hopper] Do you like him?
[Aelita] Oh, thank you, mommy!
[Franz Hopper] It's like math.
Let me show you.
[playing "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star"]
[Aelita] Mommy?
-[light music]
-[bike bell ringing]
-[playing "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star"]
-[rapid footsteps]
[Aelita] Daddy!
[Aelita] I'm going up to my room.
[playing "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star"]
[loud thud]
-[Aelita gasps]
-[man] All right, come out of there!
[Aelita gasps] Daddy!
The men in black are here!
I know.
Do you remember where Mister Pück is?
-Yes.
-[Franz Hopper] Come quickly.
[gasps]
[Franz Hopper] This way!
[tense music]
[Franz Hopper] There.
[grunting]
But… Where are we?
[Franz Hopper] My laboratory.
-[Franz Hopper] Come on.
-[Aelita] Where?
[Franz Hopper] To a world
where we will be safe, you and I, forever!
[Franz Hopper] See you in a minute, honey.
See you in a minute, Daddy.
[gasps]
What's going on, Jeremy?
It's Franz Hopper.
[Jeremy]
He's bringing Lyoko back to life!
[dramatic music]
[Yumi] Look! It's incredible!
Franz Hopper is saving his daughter!
[digital scanning]
[Jeremy] To the scanner room! Quick!
[gasping]
Aelita!
Jeremy…
[theme music]
[light music]
Right. Would someone please say
something funny
before I have a heart attack?
[sighs]
My father sacrificed himself for me
and we don't even know
if he's still on Lyoko!
Fine.
Excuse me while I have my heart attack.
All those memories of your life on Earth,
that was the fragment that XANA
took from you to bind you to him.
And Franz Hopper managed
to give them back to you!
Now you're free, Aelita.
But unfortunately, so is XANA!
Shutting the Supercomputer down
is not gonna kill XANA anymore.
What are we gonna do?
Same as always, we'll fight!
XANA may have become more powerful,
but I don't think he's invincible.
[Jeremy]
If he attacks, we'll counterattack!
[Jeremy] We'll find a way
to get rid of XANA for good!
And we'll do everything we can
to find your dad, Aelita!
You're right. The fight has to go on.
After all, fighting XANA is my job!
[grunts]
No, Aelita.
It's our job.
[gasps]
[theme music]